=head1 NAME

 tt2rom - convert truth table (ASM chart) to EEPROM programmer input

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 tt2rom [options] <filename>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tt2rom> converts an algorithmic state machine (ASM chart),
represented as a truth table, into an Intel HEX format file, for use
by commonly-available EEPROM programmers.  A truth table has inputs
which are defined as '0' or '1', or left undefined as 'x'.  Outputs
are defined as '0' or '1', or left undefined as '-'.  By default, all
undefined outputs are forced high (1) on output, although this can be
changed using the I<--output-dc> option (see below).

The input file is processed, and any errors encountered are reported
to the standard output, giving a line number and an indication of the
problem.  Assuming there are no problems with the input, a ROM image
is generated for each ROM specified in the truth table, and written
out to a file named 'sourceX.hex', where 'X' is the number of the ROM
specified in the input file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following command-line options are available:

=over 4

=item --help

	Display a help message summarizing command line options
	and usage instructions, and exit the program.

=item --version

	Display version and copyright information for the program,
	and exit.

=item --output-dc=X

	Set the default value for unspecified outputs to X, where
	X is a 0 or a 1.  No other values are permitted.  If you
	omit this option, the current version of B<tt2rom> will emit
	a 1 for each unspecified output.

=item --output-fmt=[raw|text|intel]

	Set the output format.  Defaults to 'intel', which is an
	Intel HEX format file.  Raw means to dump the ROM image
	as a binary file.  Text means to emit the bytes in a 
	human-readable text format with addresses.

=back

The empty option, '--', can be used to stop argument processing.  You
can use this if for some silly reason you have to deal with an input
file whose name begins with two hyphens.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The input to B<tt2rom> is a text file specifying the truth table
inputs and outputs.  The first non-blank line of the file is a format
line, which describes the order and type of bits specified on the rest
of the lines.  Input or address bits are designated with the 
letter 'A'.  Output bits are designated by their ROM ID number.

The ROM ID is a single digit specifying which ROM the output bit in
that position will be sent to.  This version of B<tt2rom> supports ROM
ID's from 0-9 inclusive, so you can specify up to ten ROMs using the
same input file.  An example format line that has 7 input bits and 14
output bits might look like this:

	AAA AAAA	0000 00	1111 1111

In this example, the seven least-significant address bits (A6-A0) are
used.  The least-significant bit is rightmost, and all unspecified
higher address bits (e.g., A7, A8) are assumed to be zero.  Notice
that two ROMs (with ROM ID's 0 and 1) are used in this example.  Thus,
the six least-significant output bits (O5-O0) of ROM 0 are used, while
all the output bits for ROM 1 are used.

Spaces between columns are ignored by B<tt2rom> during processing;
only the order of the columns is significant.  You may therefore use
whitespace freely to divide up or line up various important values in
a meaningful way for yourself, the human reader of the file.  The
order of the columns is determined by the format line, however, so in
a file which has the format line given above, the first seven bits on
any line will be assumed to be address bits, the next six data bits
for ROM 0, and the remaining eight data bits for ROM 1.

An example truth-table line for the above example format line might
look something like this:

	001 xx0x	---1 01	---0 1100

Recall that 'x' represents a "don't care" input, while '-' represents
a don't care for an output.  In general, we recommend that you
I<always define your outputs>, even if they are not used.

You may insert comments on any line in the file, to document your
truth table and aid legibility.  A comment is introduced by a hash
mark (#), and goes to the end of the line that it is on.  Comments are
ignored by B<tt2rom>, so you may put anything you want there.  You may
also use the commenting facility to "comment out" portions of the
truth table you don't want to see, but may want to keep for later.

=head1 NOTES

This version of B<tt2rom> was based heavily on the original B<tt2rom>
program written by Anthony Edwards and modified by Dav Haas.  This
version removes the limitation of the previous version to ROM images
of 64 kilobytes or less.  Also, the input processing has been improved
slightly, to permit suffix comments (instead of just whole-line
comments), and to remove the strict dependency on column alignment.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

You can change the default output file name by setting the environment
variable B<FTEMPLATE> to contain the pattern to use for the file name.
The template should be a legal filename string, containing somewhere
in it the substring '%d', which is where the ROM number wil be
substituted when the output is written.  

If you do I<not> set the B<FTEMPLATE> variable, the output file name
defaults to 'file0.hex', 'file1.hex', etc., where 'file' is the name
of the corresponding input file.  If the input file name cannot be
determined, the format 'output0.hex' is used.

=head1 AUTHOR

 Michael J. Fromberger <sting@linguist.dartmouth.edu>
 Thayer School of Engineering, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA
 Copyright (C) 1999 The Trustees of Dartmouth College

 $Date: 2005/05/25 19:51:46 $

Suggestions, comments, complaints, and bug reports should be sent to
the author; or, if he cannot be located, to the Director of Computing.
